---
title: Signatures
---

# Signatures in NDN

In NDN, all data is digitally signed by the original data producer. The signature guarantees the _authenticity_ and _integrity_ of a given block of data, because the signature can only be generated by the original producer, and becomes invalid if the data is modified. These signatures stay with the data both during transit and at rest, and thus guarantee the security of the data at all times.

## Signing Data

Digital signing is done by a pair of asymmetric keys, which consists of a private key and a public key.
The _private key_ is known only by the producer, used to generate signatures.
Anyone who knows the _public key_ can verify the signature.


=== "python-ndn"

    ``` python
    --8<-- "snippets/security/key-gen.py"
    ```

=== "NDNts"

    ``` typescript
    --8<-- "snippets/security/key-gen.ts"
    ```


In a system, security is more than cryptographically verifying the signature.
For example, we also need to

-   Securely obtain the public key of the producer.
    -   A signed piece of data containing the pubic key is called a _certificate_.
-   Associate the producer with a member (human or process) in the system.
-   Make sure the member is allowed to sign the data.

These tasks can be roughly classified into four aspects:

-   Bootstrapping: to enroll a new member into an application. Make sure that the new member learns necessary security information to recognize others, and the other members are able to securely recognize new member.
-   Key Management: to manage the membership and certificates, including certification revocation, renewal, and other operations.
-   Authentication: to verify a piece of data is produced by claimed producer and not manipulated by an impersonator.
    This includes cryptographically verifying the signature.
-   Authorization: a piece of data is produced by an intended producer, and accessed by an intended consumer.
    This includes discarding of data whose producers are not allowed to produce, and encrypting data so that only permitted consumers can decrypt.

The classification described is not strict. Most work on NDN involves more than one aspects of the security.
